Maintainer responsibilities (#362)
NixOS/nix.dev: maintainers/responsibilities.md

# Maintainer responsibilities

> ## Monitor notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stay informed
```

> Watch discussions and proposals from these communication channels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow relevant activities on these communication channels:
```

- GitHub
- Discourse
- Matrix

Maintain your entry in the [`CODEOWNERS`](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) file in the respective repository.
GitHub will then request reviews for pull requests that change files you own.

> Set the notification level on the [Development > Documentation](https://discourse.nixos.org/c/dev/documentation/25) Discourse category to "watching".

Reviewer: Since [providing guidance](https://github.com/NixOS/nix.dev/pull/362/files#diff-938b8f7d7edcc48d7885b5d53680b25ff11f0f3c8516e36acf51b7c7fc784c44R33) is also supposed to be part of the activities, probably watching the Help category is also required, although it has quite some traffic. But from experience, it's just scanning topics of interest and only reading and reacting to those where one can do something meaningful.

# Maintainer responsibilities

> ## Notifications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Monitor notifications
```

> A maintainer must watch discussions and proposals from the different
> communication channels: GitHub, Discourse, and Matrix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Watch discussions and proposals from these communication channels:

- GitHub
- Discourse
- Matrix
```

> To monitor GitHub, you must have your own entry in the `.github/CODEOWNERS`

Reviewer: Problem: `CODEOWNERS` requires merge access, and we require `CODEOWNERS` entries to notify people (it seems).

@edolstra There are different permission levels on GitHub, maybe we can have a different permission for maintainers, e.g. "triage".

@yukiisbored no:

> The people you choose as code owners must have write permissions for the repository.  ([GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners))

@fricklerhandwerk is it okay for you @edolstra that more people get merge access to take care of the manual?

@edolstra there should be a different way such as in Nixpkgs to notify maintainers without requiring merge access

@infinisil what if some people on the Nix team take responsibility of documentation and are the only ones to merge PRs.

@yukiisbored https://github.com/palantir/policy-bot but this is much more complicated than `CODEOWNERS`

@infinisil GitHub marketplace has tons of extra bots we may be able to just plug in

@Mic92 https://github.com/marketplace/actions/auto-assign-reviewer-by-files this should be plug-and-play - will smash this in the Nix repo

Reviewer: Nix documentation team agrees: documentation team members should receive merge access to the repositories they take care of. If [alternative options](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/pull/7277) pan out, we can incorporate these later. For now, assume `CODEOWNERS` and merge access.

> To monitor GitHub, you must have your own entry in the `.github/CODEOWNERS`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Maintain your entry in the [`CODEOWNERS`](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) file in the respective repository.
```

> To monitor GitHub, you must have your own entry in the `.github/CODEOWNERS`
> file. GitHub will then notify you and request you for review for Pull Requests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To monitor GitHub, you must have your own entry in the [`.github/CODEOWNERS`](https://github.com/NixOS/nix.dev/blob/master/.github/CODEOWNERS)
file. GitHub will then notify you and request you for review for Pull Requests
```

> file. GitHub will then notify you and request you for review for Pull Requests
> that change files that you own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub will then request reviews for pull requests that change files you own.
```

> Start by choosing a restricted set of files you want to watch. Keep in mind

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start by choosing a restricted set of files you want to watch.
Use `sources` if you want to be notified for all documentation changes. Keep in mind
```

that choosing a broad set of files can lead to too frequent notifications.

> Then, ask for `write` access to the repository, which is needed for the

Author: refine: ask who?

Reviewer: If we use the bot, just make a PR to edit the maintainer file. @Mic92 please add a note/link which one exactly.

> Start by choosing a restricted set of files you want to watch. Keep in mind
> that choosing a broad set of files can lead to too frequent notifications.
> Then, ask for `write` access to the repository, which is needed for the
> `CODEOWNERS` file to be valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Let's have this in a separate PR, @lucperkins is working on that.

> On the Discourse topic for your team, make sure to set your notification level

Author: refine: which categories/channels

> On the Discourse topic for your team, make sure to set your notification level

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On [Development > Documentation](https://discourse.nixos.org/c/dev/documentation/25) Discourse topic, make sure to set your notification level
```

> On the Discourse topic for your team, make sure to set your notification level
> to "watching".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the notification level on the [Development > Documentation](https://discourse.nixos.org/c/dev/documentation/25) Discourse category to "watching".
```

On Matrix, make sure to join rooms related to your team, and to enable

> notifications.

Reviewer: That would always be "Nix* documentation", we don't have another one yet.

> On Matrix, make sure to join rooms related to your team, and to enable
> notifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to join the [Nix* Documentation](https://matrix.to/#/#docs:nixos.org) Matrix room and enable notifications.
```

> As a maintainer, you have the responsibility to be responsive to `@` mentions

Author: refine: specify target response time

on GitHub, Discourse, and Matrix. If said mention is low on your priority list,
you can respond by saying that.

Finally, you should also make sure to subscribe to external resources that
falls into your area. For example, if you are a maintainer of the documentation
team, you need to be aware of the stabilisation status of Nix features. If you
are a maintainer of the security team, you need to be subscribed to CVE
publications.

> ## Guidance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Provide guidance
```

As a maintainer, you will have to guide potential contributors.

This can be done by taking questions from the Discourse forum, and encouraging
the poster to write issues on GitHub, if needed, and then guide them to write
Pull Requests.

In any case, make sure to reserve time for doing Pull Request reviews, and to
only pick subjects that fall withing files that are in your `CODEOWNERS` entry.

> ## Following-up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Take ownership of issues, pull requests, and source code
```
